# dedicated-server-hosting
With all the hype surrounding the advantages of dedicated hosting, it's hard to not be confused by all the different types of hosting companies out there. This is why it's important to have a well-rounded understanding of the different types of web hosting so you know which ones will be best for your particular needs. There are two main types of dedicated server hosting, namely VPS and OpenVZ. The difference between these two types of dedicated servers is that one is intended only for one user to the other can support up to five users. The main benefits of dedicated hosting are that it allows the host to have complete control over the server while other users share just part or all of the server resources.  VPS (Virtual Private Server) is a type of dedicated hosting that uses a Linux-based operating system. There is no need to purchase a separate hardware appliance and installation of any software is also very easy. It is a very popular type of hosting because of its ability to provide greater control over resources for users. It also provides better scalability compared to a shared hosting setup. The main benefits of VPS hosting include being able to customize your server settings and being able to make upgrades to your website. You can also choose to use a VPS with or without software and operating systems. The primary benefit of VPS hosting is the ability to work on your website from anywhere in the world and also the ability to install and modify third-party applications.  An alternative to VPS hosting called Open VZ hosting is very similar to the above except that the user doesn't have full control over the server. Rather, the user is granted limited access to the host. One of the main benefits of Open VZ hosting is that the user is able to create a customized, secure environment. It is also an ideal solution if you don't have a large amount of space but need a more robust, stable and reliable web hosting service. Open VZ hosting is ideal if you need to host a high volume of traffic or are looking to host multiple websites. It is one of the least expensive forms of dedicated web hosting and is perfect for businesses that require a reliable, high-traffic website. Many large organizations choose Open VZ hosting because it's cost effective and is easy to manage, as it's based on an open source platform.
